---
layout: post
title: Just Do It
date: 2022-09-19T00:00:00-0400
published: false
---

I've decided I'm gonna write a blog. I made that decision years ago, and
countless times, I've decided I want to test out something new with the blog
and have to start from the ground up. However, every time I want to start
making a blog, I question what I'm going to write about. Should it be about
news happening in tech? My daily life? Politics (God save us)?

Every time I restart my blog, I always tend to drift towards using the blog
itself as a bootstrapping point to make my first post. This has happened
countless times, but if I ever import the history of my previous blogs into
this one, you'll notice something pretty significant: this is the first post
that actually details the creation of the blog.

> If you wish to make an apple pie from scratch you must first invent the
> universe.

This quote from Carl Sagan is what it feel like, starting on a new project.
Every detail starts swimming around my head, lost in a tsunami of thought.
Decisions such as languages, blog engines, container orchestration, and of
course topics for each start flooding my mind. This has lead to countless times
when I've started working on a new blog project, only to scrap it within a few
weeks because I keep trying to invent a universe for my _static site_ to live
in.

I try to piece together my world such that everything is reproducible from
scratch. My end goal has always been sitting down at a new computer and running
a series of build tools to automatically deploy the latest and greatest version
of whatever project I've been working on. This mentality has been harmful for
my productivity with personal products and has affected me in a professional
environment in ways I almost don't feel comfortable discussing.

The first thing I'm going to do is render this page. I'm not going to be
working on a special hosting environment, I'm not going to be working on a toy
project to see if I can optimize sending files from a static location, I'm just
going to write this post and publish it on GitHub Pages. While I don't
necessarily care for my content being hosted on a platform I don't control,
it's meant to be a first step into getting my blog running. I think at this
point it is better to get a single page built using a system I'm not
particularly fond of, than it is for my post to sit in the graveyard of my
computer until I inevitably decide to try again.
