---
layout: post
title: Target Audience
tags: meta
date: 2022-09-21 19:43 -0400
---
![empty park around a pond with autumn trees, clear water, stone retaining wall](/assets/images/2022/09/target-audience-hero.png)

Image generated from Stable Diffusion: empty park around a pond with autumn trees, clear water, stone retaining wall

Perhaps I need to start considering what I want out of my blog, and who I want
to direct my posts towards. Sometimes, I want my blog posts to feel like
technical documentation. Something you can almost copy code from, with it
working seamlessly. However, I think that kind of writing style makes me seem
like a cold person, and my site seem like a knowledge-base, rather than a blog.
I would like my posts to not only feel like they were written by a human, but
for someone to be able to look at my posts and know definitively who wrote it;
that's something that I've never been able to do before.

I think I will try to make my site feel more like a blog, with posts that
contain things about me as a person, and the thoughts that I want to have, but
I want to ensure that the ability to reference my blog as though it were a
knowledge base is still possible. This is partly because I think writing this
blog will be a great way for me to reference things I've done in the past, and
partly because I think the best way to reach new people with technology is
through the path of least resistance.

Previously, Hashbang - a project I volunteer for - has created a project called
the [book]. It exists primarily as a minimal, unstructured, knowledge-base of
information that I've been able to reference in the past. I've contributed a
lot of things to that repository, and I think I'm going to continue doing so,
but in parallel I think I'm going to try writing out similar things in my blog,
in a way that I think people might also be more willing to read.

That brings us to what I suppose the point of this article is: the target
audience. I don't really know who I want to write this blog for, all I know is
I want to write it. Getting my thoughts out there seems like a good way to both
ensure that I have the ability to retain the things I've learned and to help
others learn more about the topics that I want to help teach people about,
while also being able to put a bit of my personality into it.

I suppose I should thank you, regardless of whether you're my target audience
or the audience that I've ended up with, for continuing to read on this far.


[book]: https://github.com/hashbang/book
